Personal Statement
Xiaozhou．LU

When I read my professor’s, Dr. Robert E. McCulloch, “Bayesian CART Model Search,” the largest note I got from the article was that Metropolis-Hastings search Algorithm can set a bubble graph around the actual distribution, as well as increase the iid observation. With this theory, we can see convergences and find the smallest errors for this main distribution. Although the normal greedy algorithm in CART executes fast calculations, it is too straightforward, which is why much of the useful observations are lost. This tradeoff inspires my interest to continue studying statistics. With three-and-a-half-years into my academic career, I decided to focus primarily on fields related to machine learning. To continue this goal and pursue the focus area, my near-term alternatives were to either gain work experience or further my education by pursuing a master’s degree in statistics. 
In my early education, I read and learned about statistical theory and techniques in Arizona State University. Whilst undertaking my basic level courses in Principles of Programming with C++, Principles of Programming with java and Object-Oriented Program , the fundamental elements of these courses were of interest to me, which lie a good foundation for my future study. Supplementary reading has widened my horizons and encouraged me to examine elements above and beyond the 100 and 200 level courses. With my demonstrated aptitude for statistics, I am confident that University of California, Berkeley will hone my skills and turn me into a world class researcher. Upon completing the program at University of California, Berkeley, I plan to explore more machine learning because machine learning,  if perfected, can be used to understand the world better, impact the world with practical applications, and predict the future. 
With the theoretical knowledge accumulated, I began to devote more effort to acquire research opportunities to enrich my research experience.  I became fascinated by Machine learning in my third year at Arizona State University. During my statistics course, two classmates and I spent three-months working on a machine learning project aimed to predict the price of round cut diamonds using various approaches in order to find the most fit model. After testing the different methods, we cleaned the data using R studio and split the data 75% as the training set and 25% as the testing set. Then, we set  several variables as the influencing parameters and we select with relative parameters, we train the model by linear regression, random forest regression and to compared results. The comparison results of this project showed that random forest regression has more better F1 score than multiple linear regression. Then we tuned random forest regression by setting mtry and ntree into different values and finally found the most promising result when mtry = 2 and ntree = 200. As for the math project relative to partial differential equation, “Analyze How the Shape of Arrowhead Will Influence the Accuracy in the Air Fluent and Simulate the Aerodynamics of the Air,” (把题目改短输入，输出，步骤：我们从已知的东西去导出我们想要的东西，我们通过类比，难点) I looked into some paperto get some inspiration about how site materialization in a gird depicts dynamic activity, Our research group tried the finite difference method, then we switched to the more complex finite volume method. In the last step, we changed from heat equation to air condition. The initial code is based on an easy 1D heat diffusion equation with finite difference method. From there, we altered the code to 2D heat equation with finite difference method, then to 2D heat equation with finite volume method. Once the code for the 2D heat equation with finite volume method is set up, we can attempt in to model out how an arrow influences the air wave condition. My research projects show that I now have experimental knowledge on how to carry out statistical problems with abundant background knowledge.(In my first project I learned some machine learning basic algorithms, machine learning project work flow and how to work a project from draft. Moreover I found it pretty fascinating in predict result by model. 第二个：继续写)
In addition to research experience, my internship also gave me precious opportunities to apply academic knowledge into daily life. I experience a 3 months internship in large scale data department of city of Yinchuan. In my sophomore summer. I follow up project analyzing a city transportation patterns as a data analysis assistant. My work focusing on bus usages, I filter data by different time window (off peak hour, off hour), different seasons as well as different age group. Then aggregate them into histogram. During this project, I know how data analysists operate for a company to profit. My coworkers and I come up proposal that adjust the number of buses putting into use according to statistics we learned. which will reduce operating costs, directly enhance the public transportation efficacy, and potentially reduce air pollution cause by unnecessary shuttle.  Large scale is pretty absorbed my attention in attributing to society. Meanwhile, draw a chart by statistics can help audience grasp visually the message. I learned that in a modern large scale age we can get more inside from analysis these data in daily life. My second internship was working as data analysis intern in Bohai Securities, a stock brokerage company, at junior summer for 3 months. My internship project is estimate portfolio's expected rate of return from company stock database by using Fama-French 3-factor model. Although I am familiar with writing script in Python and Manipulating data using SQL, I had never taken any econ courses and know nothing about Fama-French 3-factor model. Lacking basic economic knowledge made this project extremely challenging to me. So, I read related text books and papers to understand how Fama-French 3-factor model works as well as how to implement it by transforming raw data from scratch. I proved myself initiative, independent and a fast learner(语法问题). In order to solved real world problem, besides equipping myself with computer and statistics knowledge, diving into a specific field is also crucial. 
  
UCI：http://catalogue.uci.edu/donaldbrenschoolofinformationandcomputersciences/departmentofstatistics/#courseinventory
STATS 210A. Statistical Methods I: Linear Models. 4 Units.
Statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Topics include randomization and model-based inference, two-sample methods, analysis of variance, linear regression, and model diagnostics.
STATS 225. Bayesian Statistical Analysis. 4 Units.
Introduction to the Bayesian approach to statistical inference. Topics include univariate and multivariate models, choice of prior distributions, hierarchical models, computation including Markov chain Monte Carlo, model checking, and model selection.
STATS 270. Stochastic Processes. 4 Units.
Introduction to the theory and application of stochastic processes. Topics include Markov chains, continuous-time Markov processes, Poisson processes, and Brownian motion. Applications include Markov chain Monte Carlo methods and financial modeling (for example, option pricing).
UCI xx学院xx program provides great opportunity to achieve more knowledge in statistic. Amount the list of graduate level courses the program provides, Statistical method: linear models, Bayesian statistical analysis, Stochastic processes intrigues me the most because I am enthusiastic to systematically learn more about topics such as linear regression, Bayesian approach as well as Markov chains. (课程模板). I also interested in paper written by xx and want to work with him/her in xxx(topic).  结尾。 

Undergraduate courses and projects help me solid mathematics and computer background. Internship experiences show me how does statistics useful working in real world problem and stimulate my interest in further learning, Enable me resolve to determination to continuing study. It is important for me to have further hunger to acquire advantage in statistics knowledge as well as mathematics ability(换词) and programming skill. With all my knowledge and experience, I have a strong desire to pursuit higher education in Statistics. University of California, Berkeley stands out as an institution that offers a Master of Science in Statistics program.

